---
layout: post
title: Arrival
image: /img/hello_world.jpeg
tags: [random, exciting-stuff]
---
Just now watched _Arrival_, an interesting perspective for a science fiction movie. It made me thinking about languages and the role they play in our lives. Is it possible that a new superior language would help us to see the future. 

First, what is a language? It's a medium to abstract, represent and communicate concepts. 
Then, we should accept the language can determine how we perceive the reality. But not the reality itself. 
It is well known that our customs (habits or habitats for that matter) (re-) wires our brains and help 'to improve' our perception. 

For example, it's shown in a recent [study](www.google.com) that our minds are conditioned by our living spaces and we perceive the below lines of equal lengths as shorter and longer depending on the arrow head. 

<------------->

\>-------------<

Apparently, this is because we are raised in house with walls and sharp corners. The control group in that study - an aboriginal population in Africa did not fall for these illusions. 
That means, the languages are not unique in affecting our perception about reality. 

Ofcourse, one's lifestyle can be shaped by the language just the other way around but the possible lifestyle will be constrained by the physical reality. An analogy would be the relations between hardware and software. Software can optimise or abstract the capabilities of hardware but can't exceed it!

So, the claim that with a new language, we can see the future implies that time is directionless in reality and just we don't perceive it! For me that's like saying,

Oh, you know what. We lack the mathematical tools to model this phenomemon. That's alright as long as we are talking about abstract mathematical concepts. But this.. This is reality and we live here. If it exists, we would have experienced it - _the directionless nature of time_, by now. 
